Scrub non-tokenised payment methods on fully cancelled accounts (#3748)
guardian/support-service-lambdas: handlers/scrub-non-tokenised-payment-methods/README.md

# scrub-non-tokenised-payment-methods

Strips the card data from non-tokenised card payment methods on Zuora accounts

> where every subscription is cancelled.

Reviewer: This handler is a state machine that runs daily to clear non-tokenised card data from Zuora accounts with no active subscriptions.

Author: Taken as is, that's clearer than what I had.

## Why

A `CreditCard` payment method in Zuora holds the card details themselves. A
`CreditCardReferenceTransaction` holds only a gateway token, and the card lives
at Stripe or PayPal instead. We have roughly 39,000 of the former against 2.78

> million of the latter, so the non-tokenised ones are the tail end of an older

Reviewer: don't say former and latter, just say what they are

Reviewer: also correct the "older way of taking payments" as discussed - as this is still used

Reviewer: I don't quite understand the relevance of CreditCardReferenceTransaction vs CreditCard, or the stats.  Do we need to mention it at all?

Author: Fixed, both types named.

way of taking payments.

Once every subscription on an account is cancelled, those card details can never

> be used again. Keeping them is pure risk with no upside.

Reviewer: Keeping them creates the risk of what?  accidentally charging the customer inappropriately?  Is this something special to non tokenised payment methods?
or is there a separate process for tokenised ones?

Author: Rewritten to say it plainly: it's holding cardholder data we no longer have a use for, since a CreditCard method keeps the number and expiry inside Zuora. Not a wrong-charge risk, the account has nothing live left. And there's no equivalent for tokenised ones because there's nothing in Zuora to strip, only a gateway token. Whether those should be revoked at Stripe or PayPal is a separate question I haven't looked at.

## Scrub, not delete

> The card asked for deletion. We use Zuora's scrub endpoint instead, which strips

Reviewer: we don't need to talk about (asana) cards, this is a reference document to help people understand the current situation

Author: Right, removed.

charge, and we never write to it. That matters for the largest group of targets:
9,050 of them are the default on an account with `autoPay` still true.

**Scrub works on a cancelled account. Delete does not.** Where the Zuora account
itself has status `Canceled`, both of these are rejected:

```
DELETE /v1/payment-methods/{id}   -> 50000030 Cannot delete payment method on a canceled account
PUT    /v1/accounts/{number}      -> 51500030 Cannot update a cancelled account
```

There is no way through: you cannot delete it and you cannot detach it either.
Only 5 of the current targets are in that state, the other 19,728 sit on
accounts that are still `Active` with all their subscriptions cancelled, but
scrub covers both without a special case.

What scrub does not do is keep the payment method readable. Afterwards
`GET /v1/payment-methods/{id}` answers `50000040 cannot be found` and the object
disappears from ZOQL queries. The payment records survive and still carry the
payment method id. Scrubbing twice fails with `50000020`.

## What counts as a target

- The payment method type is `CreditCard`, so not tokenised.
- Its status is `Active`.

> - Every latest-version subscription on the account is `Cancelled`.

Reviewer: is that enough? CSRs can cancel subs forward dated to the end of the term, so we would still need to take payments.  I would recommend to wait until it's also after termEndDate for them all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Every subscription on the account is `Cancelled`.
```

Author: You're right and this was a real bug, thanks. I checked and there are 17,144 cancelled subs with a term end in the future, 147 of which are on accounts this job would have picked up today, so we'd have stripped the card while payments were still due. The query and the Zuora revalidation now both require the term to be over as well, with tests for the forward dated case.

- The account has at least one subscription, so accounts that never had one are
  left alone.

Subscriptions are versioned in Zuora and each amendment creates a new version, so
the query only looks at the latest version of each. An account with an active

> subscription and several old cancelled versions is not a target.

Reviewer: the old versions of the subscription are Expired, they can't be cancelled.
If an account has multiple subscriptions, you have covered it with "every [...] subscription on the account is cancelled"

Author: Ah yes, I checked and every non-latest version is Expired, there isn't a single cancelled one. So my explanation was wrong. The filter is still needed but for the opposite reason: without it the Expired versions would fail the every-subscription-is-cancelled test and nothing would ever qualify. Reworded.

## How it runs

A Step Function on a daily 6am cron, only enabled in PROD.

1. `get-payment-methods-to-scrub` queries BigQuery and writes the work list to
   S3.
2. A distributed map feeds that list one item at a time to
   `scrub-payment-methods`.
3. The map result is read back, and if anything failed the team gets an SNS
   message.

### The daily cap

The query is capped at 500 rows, oldest first. There is a historical backlog of
around 20,000 payment methods going back to 2015, and an ongoing trickle of
somewhere between four and fourteen a month. Capping each run means the same
code drains the backlog over about six weeks and then quietly handles the
trickle, with no separate backfill job. It also keeps the run comfortably inside

> Zuora's rate limit.

Reviewer: as far as I know zuora has a concurrency limit not a daily rate limit, so as long as you stick to one at a time that shouldn't be an limitation even running it constantly

Author: You're right, and the cap was never really about Zuora. The map runs one at a time so we're inside the in flight limit whatever the cap is. What it actually buys is a run that finishes inside the state machine's hour timeout, and small first PROD runs that are readable. Reworded here and in the two code comments that repeated it.

### Revalidation

> The work list comes from BigQuery, which lags Zuora by up to a sync interval. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The work list comes from BigQuery, which only contains Zuora data up to midnight. In
```

Author: Taken. I checked the sync times too and it's exactly once a day just after midnight, so your wording is the accurate one.

# scrub-non-tokenised-payment-methods

This handler is a state machine that runs daily to clear non-tokenised card data
from Zuora accounts with no active subscriptions.

## Why

A `CreditCard` payment method in Zuora holds the card details themselves. A
`CreditCardReferenceTransaction` holds only a gateway token, and the card lives
at Stripe or PayPal instead. We have roughly 39,000 `CreditCard` payment methods
against 2.78 million `CreditCardReferenceTransaction` ones.

The risk is holding cardholder data we have no use for. A `CreditCard` method
keeps the card number and expiry inside Zuora, so they live in our systems, and
in anything derived from them, for as long as the record does. Once the account
is finished being billed that card can never be charged again, so there is
nothing to weigh against keeping it.

It is not about charging someone by mistake. The account has no live
subscription left, and where the scrubbed method was the default Zuora switches

> auto pay off as well.

Reviewer: holding data itself is a hazard not  a risk.  the risk is what could happen as a result of that.  I think this bit can be a lot more concise.
The risk is surely that we either charge them when we shouldn't (this has happened in the past multiple times), that we could add a new subscription using old/defunct payment details, or worst case that there could be a breach of the data.
I don't know the answer why we're specifically doing this now, but presumably that came through in the original requirements.

Author: Fair, hazard vs risk is the right distinction and I'd buried it in waffle. Cut down to the three actual risks you listed: charging someone we shouldn't, starting a subscription against defunct details, and the details being caught in a breach. I don't know why now either beyond the ticket asking for it, so I've not invented a reason.

Reviewer: I don't suggest you have or should invent anything, I just mean we're trying to help customers, not complete tickets.  If we don't know the real reason now, we're even less likely to know in future, but now is the best time to find out and document it.
I did specifically say that I don't know the answer, so changing it to the "actual risks I listed" doesn't make any sense without confirming either way.

There is no equivalent job for tokenised methods because there is nothing in
Zuora to strip: the card sits at Stripe or PayPal and Zuora only holds a token.
Whether those tokens should be revoked at the gateway is a separate question

> that this job does not answer.

Reviewer: I think we can just leave this out, unless we know of a job that we can point people at, it's redundant.

Author: Agreed, it was me answering a question nobody asked. Removed.

### This is an ongoing mechanism, not a one off

`CreditCard` is not a dead type we are clearing out. It is what you get when card
details are entered in Zuora directly, and around 200 to 250 are still created a
month, steady, with no sign of declining. About 88 percent of the recent ones
land on an account that already existed, so they look like card updates rather
than new signups.

What is old is the backlog currently in scope, because a card only becomes a
target once every subscription on its account is cancelled, which happens long
after the card was added. Hence 6,000 in scope from 2018 alone against 121
created this year. A card added today simply becomes eligible later.

That is why this is a scheduled job rather than a cleanup script: the stock is

> historical, but the source is live and will keep feeding it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CreditCard` are added when details are entered directly into Zuora, which supports CSR assisted card updates.
Once established, this job will clean up the details as they become redundant, but before that there will be a backlog which will be cleared gradually over several months.
```

Author: Taken as is, much better than mine.
